### ★ ALERT!

This page is used by the judges to evaluate your team for the [Best Software Tool award](http://2016.igem.org/Judging/Awards).

Delete this box in order to be evaluated for this medal. See more information at [Instructions for Pages for awards](http://2016.igem.org/Judging/Pages_for_Awards/Instructions).

Regardless of the topic, iGEM projects often create or adapt computational tools to move the project forward. Because they are born out of a direct practical need, these software tools (or new computational methods) can be surprisingly useful for other teams. Without necessarily being big or complex, they can make the crucial difference to a project's success. This award tries to find and honor such "nuggets" of computational work.

##### Inspiration

Here are a few examples from previous teams:

*   [TU Munich 2013](http://2013.igem.org/Team:TU-Munich/Results/Software)
*   [Heidelberg 2014](http://2014.igem.org/Team:Heidelberg/Software)
*   [Aachen 2014](http://2014.igem.org/Team:Aachen/Project/Measurement_Device#Software)

#Rosetta Protein Modelling
Rosetta and Protein Modelling
We used Rosetta and PyRosetta to model and compare the gold-binding ability of GolS as a monomer and a predicted GolS homodimer. 
We began by creating a 3D model of GolS. As we did not have a crystal structure, we used the crystal structure for the homologous transcriptional activator protein CueR from the RCSB Protein Data Bank [cite] as the basis for our model. To account for interactions created by elements of GolS secondary structure, we manually adjusted the settings of PyRosetta movers as they cycled though random changes to the angles of residues, restricting the allowed angles in specific areas to ranges characteristic to corresponding secondary structure features. In addition, we adjusted the scoring weights of our functions to account for predicted interactions- for example, we increased the values for hydrogen bonds in regions containing alpha helices, and decreased the values for disulfide bonds. To improve the accuracy of our prediction, we matched our model against the library of 3mer and 9mer fragments generated by the Robetta server (based on the amino acid sequence of GolS.) 
Some of our considerations while modelling included whether to model side chains as ‘centroids’ for low computational cost or at full-atom resolution for a relatively high computational cost, as well as the incorporation of various specific features. For example, we carefully matched the positions of the polar or charged catalytic residues in the N-terminal alpha helix to their expected locations and accounted for the electrostatic interactions between these residues and the DNA backbone, modelled the binding of DNA to the GolB promoter as occurring in two sites based on hydrogen bond interactions, based on sequence similarity between copA (the promoter for CueR) and GolB, and modelled an invariant region from Ser77 to residue 110 by matching our model exactly to Needle results [add detail here]. Where we lacked detail, we tried to evaluate all possible configurations: for example, we modelled the C-terminal coil supervariant region while accounting for the many possible interactions that could take place due to the presence of charged residues, both negative and positive, and evaluated the strength all possible hydrogen bonds using PyMol in order to determine how to predict the configuration of the catalytic regions and the interactions between the invariant regions and the DNA-binding area.
After creating the 3D structure for GolS within Rosetta, we docked two GolS monomers together to create a homodimer. GolS belongs to the MerR family of transcriptional regulators, which usually function as homodimers, so we modelled gold-binding with the GolS monomer as well as the GolS homodimer. In order to generate another working 3D model of a GolS monomer based only on its DNA sequence, we used Robetta’s Fold-and-Dock protocol, the Robetta fragment libraries discussed above, and a symmetry definition file defining the structure of the final protein complex. The Fold-and-Dock protocol cycles repeatedly through rounds of fragment insertion, adjusted for symmetry, and rigid-body docking, with the energy of the resulting conformations evaluated at each step. [add more detail]
[Ligand binding info to come.]

#Database for Operon Prediction
In this project we created a relational database using a program called Django which allows website design and databases creation using python.  This databases uses stores information on the tables species, accessions, genes, operon database, HMM-Output and HMM – Profile. The schema of the database was designed so that certain pieces of information are shared among the tables, connecting them to each other. After the database schema was created in Django, information from their databases was uploaded using python scripts and their information was added to the database.

Hidden Markov Models (HMMs) are a form of Markov model used in statistical analysis. Because HMMs are derived from Markov models, HMMs must comply by the Markov property: the current state (n) is dependent only on the previous state (n-1) and no state that precedes the n-1 state. Additionally, the process of state n affects is hidden from the observer and only the observation (o) from that process is observed.  (http://mlg.eng.cam.ac.uk/zoubin/papers/ijprai.pdf). HMMs are useful statistical tools when applied to biology and genetics because of their ability to handle the large amount of data produced from sequencing techniques. Some of their practical functions include predictions of structure and sequence of new proteins or genes, multiple sequence alignments, and gene finding (http://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pmc/articles/PMC2766791/) Of greatest relevance to our group is the function of gene finding, where we screen the genomes of bacterial species with sequences of genes related to gold and gold resistance.  

Database section: We began by determining the most appropriate proteome and genome databases for bacterial species and strains where we could download protein sequences and genomes. Despite not using protein sequences, we settled on the UniProt protein database for individual protein sequences. We used the Genbank genome database for full genomes downloaded in the Genbank file format. 

We then used HMMs to develop profiles with ClustalW2 multiple sequence alignments of many DNA sequences of specific gene sequences. These profile HMMs were then used to determine if various bacterial species and strains contained genes that contained metal related functions. We ran these profiles against the Genbank files of these bacterial species and strains and got ______. 


#Camera App

#RNN for Operon Prediction
